So this past week was the first week of school, and the first week of Software
Engineering. Since it *was* just the first week, we didn't do much - went over
the syllabus and began talking about
[Collatz](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/downing/cs373/projects/Collatz.html).

Thankfully, the
[Collatz](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/downing/cs373/projects/Collatz.html)
project is actually something I've done before, in Professor Downing's
[Object-Oriented Programming](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/downing/cs371p/)
(OOP) class last semester. Everything is the exact same, from the repo file
structure to the cache optimization. The only difference is that this time, it
will be done in Python, not C++. So, although the first couple weeks in this
class will probably feel a bit repetitive, I'm looking forward to what's going
to come after.

Starting next week, I'm going to try and knock out the project and turn it in
early, so I have more time to work on other classes. I'm also going to *really*
make an effort to do all of the assigned readings, something I fell behind on
and eventually stopped doing altogether. It was a decision that cost me a
handful of quiz points, easy points that I could've really used by the end of
the semester.

Overall, I'm excited for what's to come. I've heard a lot of great things about
this class, especially the big group project later on. I was told by a friend
who took this class last semester that the group project is actually not all
that time-consuming, since it is split between 5-6 people. I'm still a little
skeptical, however -- the bulk of my web development experience is on the
front-end side, so the fact that we're going to be implementing a database along
with the web application is a little intimidating.

I'm also making myself  **_do the extra credit_** in this class. Last semester
in OOP, if I had just bothered to spend maybe 30 minutes a week writing a blog
post, and *at most* an hour at some point during the semester to set up a Seelio
profile, it would've made the difference between an A and a B. Or if I had just
taken a little bit of time to actually read the assigned readings to do better
on a few quizzes. Every point in this class counts, and it was silly of me to
leave free/easy points on the table.

**Tip of the week**: [Dillinger](http://dillinger.io/) is a really nice markdown
editor, and is what I'm using right now to type this blog post. Also,
[*this* blog post](http://blog.marksteve.com/deploy-a-flask-application-inside-a-digitalocean-droplet)
("Deploying a Flask application inside a DigitalOcean droplet") by Mark Samson
was really useful when I was playing around with creating a Flask app before the
start of the semester. Even though we're going to be using
[Rackspace](https://www.rackspace.com/) instead of
[Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/) for a host, the instructions are
the same.